# Generate TE library using RepeatModeler
When soft masking your genome, using a taxon repeats library (eg. from Dfam) will often result in low masking percentage because the library lacks the species-specific repeats for your particular species. The presence of unmasked repeats in your genome, especially in high density will impede downstream annotation. Therefore, it is crucial to generate a species-specific repeat library in such cases.

Scripts to generate custom species-specific repeats library can be found here [run_repeatmodeler.sh](https://github.com/kango2/pogors/blob/main/run_repeatmodeler.sh). It can be launched as follows.
```
export workingdir="/path/to/working_directory"
export inputgenome="/path/to/genome.fa"
export species="Species_name"
qsub -P ${PROJECT} -o ${workingdir} -v workingdir=${workingdir},inputgenome=${inputgenome},species=${species} run_repeatmodeler.sh
```
OR a one liner
```
qsub -P ${PROJECT} -o /path/to/workingdir -v workingdir=/path/to/workingdir,inputgenome=/path/to/genome.fa,species=Species_name run_repeatmodeler.sh
```
The script will also generate a followup [cleanup.sh] script in your working directory which you can execute to tar up the working directory generated by RepeatModeler. Please double and triple check the content of this cleanup script before executing it.
```
./cleanup.sh
```
NOTES:
1. For whatever reason, local installation of RepeatModeler will run slower than conda installation (significantly slower, possibly a bug on the software's end), it is therefore why this script uses the conda installation of RepeatModeler 2.0.4 on NCI gadi.
2. The LTR pipeline within RepeatModeler does not seem to be working, therefore it is excluded in the parameters.
3. **Output files:** '${workingdir}/database/${species}-families.fa' and '${workingdir}/database/${species}-families.stk'
